README.md, before:

# Extra Attribute Editor for Maya

A convenient plugin for managing custom attributes in Autodesk Maya

![Extra Attribute Editor](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/45351b86-577b-45d6-abc0-229ceb06fcaf)

## How to Use

1. Download `exattr-maya.mll` from [Releases](https://github.com/cignoir/exattr-maya/releases)
2. Copy to your Maya plug-ins folder (e.g., `%USERPROFILE%\Documents\maya\2025\plug-ins\`)
3. Load the plugin via Maya's Plug-in Manager
4. Launch from menu: **Windows > General Editors > Extra Attribute Editor**
5. Or use MEL command: `exAttrEditor -ui;`

## Key Features

- High-speed scanning of custom attributes across the entire scene
- Batch editing of nodes with custom attributes
- Filter and sort functionality
- Select polygons assigned to materials with custom attributes

## Specifications

- **Maya Version**: Maya 2025 or later
- **Platform**: Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- **Performance**: 10,000 objects / 3 seconds
- **License**: MIT License

## Building from Source

For developers.

### Requirements

- Visual Studio 2022
- CMake 3.20 or later
- Maya 2025 SDK

### Build Steps

```cmd
build.bat
```

Custom Maya path:
```cmd
build.bat "D:\Autodesk\Maya2025"
```

Build output: `build/exattr-maya.mll`

## License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

© 2025 cignoir

Commit message:

Add Extract Assigned Polygons feature and Qt header support
Introduces the 'Extract Assigned Polygons' feature to the UI, allowing users to extract geometry assigned to selected materials with configurable options (object name, material assignment, mesh combining, etc). Adds ExtractOptionsDialog for option input, updates context menus, and implements extraction logic via embedded Python. Also improves build and CMake scripts to support custom Qt header locations and automatic extraction from zip if missing, and updates documentation accordingly.

README.md, after:

# Extra Attribute Editor for Maya

A convenient plugin for managing custom attributes in Autodesk Maya

![Extra Attribute Editor](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/45351b86-577b-45d6-abc0-229ceb06fcaf)

## How to Use

1. Download `exattr-maya.mll` from [Releases](https://github.com/cignoir/exattr-maya/releases)
2. Copy to your Maya plug-ins folder (e.g., `%USERPROFILE%\Documents\maya\2025\plug-ins\`)
3. Load the plugin via Maya's Plug-in Manager
4. Launch from menu: **Windows > General Editors > Extra Attribute Editor**
5. Or use MEL command: `exAttrEditor -ui;`

## Key Features

- High-speed scanning of custom attributes across the entire scene
- Batch editing of nodes with custom attributes
- Filter and sort functionality
- Select polygons assigned to materials with custom attributes
- **Extract Assigned Polygons**:
    - Right-click on a material node in the list.
    - Choose **Extract Assigned Polygons...** to separate geometry assigned to that material.
    - **Options**:
        - **New Object Name**: Name for the extracted mesh(es).
        - **Keep Original Polygons**: If unchecked, original faces are deleted.
        - **Assign Single Lambert Material**: Assigns a new default shader to extracted/remaining faces.
        - **Combine Meshes**: Merges multiple extracted meshes into a single object (preserves UVs, deletes history).
    - **Grouping**: Extracted objects are automatically placed in a new group (`[Name]_grp`) at the scene root.

## Specifications

- **Maya Version**: Maya 2025 or later
- **Platform**: Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- **Performance**: 10,000 objects / 3 seconds
- **License**: MIT License

## Building from Source

For developers.

### Requirements

- Visual Studio 2022
- CMake 3.20 or later
- Maya 2025 SDK

### Build Steps

```cmd
build.bat
```

Custom Maya path:
```cmd
build.bat "D:\Autodesk\Maya2025"
```

Build output: `build/exattr-maya.mll`

## License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

© 2025 cignoir
